1. Jim Corbett National Park: Watch The Tigers
Jim Corbett National Park:

Popular amongst tourists as a weekend getaway destination, Jim Corbett National Park is the most famous and oldest national park in Uttarakhand. It is divided into five zones that make its expansive landscapes easier for wildlife enthusiasts, bird lovers, and culture vultures to explore.

While it has a plethora of flora and fauna, what makes it a paradise for travelers is that it is amongst the few tiger reserves in India that allow an overnight stay in the lap of nature.

Entry Fees:

Jeep & Elephant Safari
INR 4500 for Indians and INR 8000 for foreigners per jeep (Maximum 6 persons are allowed in one Jeep)
Canter Safari
INR 1500 for Indians and INR 3000 for foreigners per person (One Canter has 16 Seats)
Timings:

Jeep & Elephant Safari
5:45 AM to 09:15 AM
3:00 PM to 6:15 PM
Canter Safari
6:00 AM to 11:30 AM
12:00 PM to 5:30 PM
Best Time To Visit: October to June

Things To Do:

Jungle safari
Wildlife spotting and photography
Witness the Corbett waterfall
Visit the Garjia Temple
Best Hotels To Stay Nearby: Corbett De Coracao, Corbett Country Inn, Parfait The Roar Resort Corbett, and more.

Location: Nainital District, Ramnagar, Uttarakhand

How to reach: Buses, cabs, taxis, local transportation

Famous for: Wildlife, safari rides

Nainital

Situated along the foothills of the Shiwalik range in the Himalayas, this famous national park in Uttarakhand is now a common home of three sanctuaries, i.e. Chilla, Motichur, and Rajaji. It is an ideal place to go for a holiday if you’re a bird lover as this park has around 400 species of birds like Great Hornbill, Black-bellied Tern, Scaly Thrush, and more.

For a wildlife photographer and a birder, this national park has a lot of good spots that can make your holiday experience quite enriching.

Entry Fees:

INR 150 for Indians and INR 600 for foreigners for about 3 hours
INR 2000 for gypsy
Timings:

6:00 AM to 9:00 AM
3:00 PM to 6:00 PM
Best Time To Visit: Mid-November to Mid-June

Things To Do:

Jungle safari in Rajaji National Park
Staying in the lap of nature
Best Hotels To Stay Nearby: Wild Brook Retreat,

Location: 5/1, Ansari Road, Mohand Range, Dehradun, Uttarakhand

How to reach: Buses, cabs, taxis, local transportation

Famous for: Shivalik mountains, nature

Suggested Read: 28 Offbeat Places In Uttarakhand: Explore The Hidden Himalayan Gems In 2022

3. Valley Of Flowers National Park: See Colorful Valleys
Valley Of Flowers National Park
Image Source

The Valley of Flowers National Park in Uttarakhand is like a heaven on earth. With an exotic range of flora and endangered species of fauna like the blue sheep, black deer, and more, this place is where every nature admirer, photography enthusiast, and botanist should be.

While the breathtaking beauty of this place is unmatchable in its own way, the trek route that leads from Govindghat to here is a gem worth admiring as well.

Entry Fees: INR 150 for Indians and INR 600 for foreigners (for three days)

Timings: 8:00 AM to 5:00 PM

Best Time To Visit: June to October

Things To Do:

Visit the Pushpawati river bed
Capture the beauty of the gorgeous flora
Visit the nearby famous Hemkund Sahib
Best Hotels To Stay Nearby: Ganga Resort Govindghat, Sri Nanda Lokpal Palace Ghangaria, and more.

Location: Chamoli District, Near Govindghat, Uttarakhand

How to reach: Buses, cabs, taxis, local transportation

Famous for: The flower blossoms

4. Nanda Devi National Park: A World Heritage Site
Nanda Devi National Park
Image Source

Located in the Chamoli district, amidst the Himalayas, Nanda Devi is not just one of the most famous national parks in Uttarakhand, but also a famous UNESCO world heritage site. With an exotic range of flora and unique fauna like Brahma-Kamal and Bharal (the blue mountain goat), this place has exceptional experiences for you in store.

And while you’re here, make sure your camera is completely charged and so are you on energy, because the restricted entry to this place makes it only once in a lifetime opportunity.

Entry Fees: NA

Timings: 4:00 AM to 7:00 PM

Best Time To Visit: May to October

Things To Do:

Trekking to Nanda Devi National Park
Witness the spectacular glaciers
Admire the famous peaks around the park
Best Hotels To Stay Nearby: Auli Resort, The Tattva Resort, Dream Mountain Resort, and more.

Location: Joshimath, Uttarakhand

How to reach: Buses, cabs, taxis, local transportation

Famous for: The Himalayan mountains


5. Gangotri National Park: Witness The Different Species
Gangotri National Park

Nestled amidst coniferous forests and lush green meadows, this is the biggest national park in Uttarakhand. It is home to some 15 species of mammals like snow leopard, pheasants, blue sheep & more, and 150 species of birds that make it a one-of-its-kind park in the region.

Also being the place of origin of River Ganga, this park offers scintillating views of the flowing rivers, which are enough to calm the chaos within.

Entry Fees: INR 150

Timings: 10:00 AM to 6:00 PM

Best Time To Visit: April to October

Things To Do:

Nature walk
Sightseeing
Capturing the unique species of mammals
Best Hotels To Stay Nearby: Neelanga Resorts, Prakriti Retreat in Harsil, and more.

Location: Gangotri – Gaumukh Pedestrian Way, Post Taknaur Range, Uttarkashi, Uttarakhand

How to reach: Buses, cabs, taxis, local transportation

Famous for: Mystic landscape

Suggested Read: 30 Resorts In Jim Corbett For 2022 That Are Definitely A Class Apart

6. Govind Pashu Vihar National Park & Sanctuary: Admire Valleys
Govind Pashu Vihar National Park and Sanctuary
Image Source

Of all the national parks and wildlife sanctuaries in Uttarakhand, this park is known for its exceptional flora that makes up as remedial plants, and fauna. It lies in the higher reaches of the Garhwal Himalayas, and is one of the only remaining strongholds of the bearded vulture, a vital ecological catalyst.

Also called as Dev Bhoomi, this place has captivating mountains and glaciers that are a sight worth witnessing.

Entry Fees: NA

Timings: NA

Best Time To Visit: April to June and September to November

Things To Do:

Wildlife spotting
Visit Har ki dun, Swargarohini, and Juda ka Talab
Staying in a forest rest house
Best Hotels To Stay Nearby: Lemon Tree in Dehradun, Camp Nirvana Yamunotri in Barkot, and more.

Location: Supin Range, Uttarakhand

How to reach: Buses, cabs, taxis, local transportation

Famous for: Nature and lush green zones

Suggested Read: 11 Beautiful Valleys In Uttarakhand You Have Got To Visit In 2022!

Tips For Visiting The National Parks In Uttarakhand
jeep safari

Here are a few tips to keep in mind while touring the national parks in Uttarakhand:

Make sure you check the timings and opening months of these national parks before planning your trip to Uttarakhand.
Carry a good camera with you.
Pack a few windcheaters even if you are traveling in the summers, along with essential toiletries and mosquito repellent.
The Valley Of Flowers National Park remains open till 5 PM, but the entry is allowed only till 2 PM. Make sure you reach before that so that you spend a good amount of time there.
If you wish to spot more animals, prefer taking an early morning safari as animals tend to begin their day earlier than we do.